Mismanagement has been
a bit of a bugaboo of late.
Well. would you
like me to fix your problem?
Well. I wonder. can you?
There are calves to wean.
Get your gear together
and get your asses
in the saddle.
Y'all got ten minutes.
I'm looking for
answers for Wes and Whitney.
you son of a bitch.
Go pack your fucking shit.
The Jacksons
are gonna chew you up.
spit you out.
forget you ever had a name.
Why? I did the job
just like Ms. Beulah told me.
Circumstances have changed.
This place is held together
with tape and baling wire.
You are easy prey. Beulah.
Evolve or die.
What are you selling?
You hire me.
nobody will fight
harder for you.
Three weeks ago.
I found a dead body
on our property.
It floated over from 10-Petal.
We need to be careful
with this family.
You scared the shit
out of me. brother.
I'm back in the saddle.
What's all this?
Had a minute.
Te quiero mucho. but
it's too early to build a crib.
I don't care about
some wives' tale.
Plus. I'll sleep better
knowing it's already here.
How do you feel about today?
Not bad.
as long as it's not forever.
Nothing's forever. Not your job.
not mine. not 10-Petal.
Nor anything else
that may come our way.
And that don't scare you?
Bringing a kid into this world?
To have a father
that would do anything
to protect it. to raise it.
to love it?
A mother that would do the same?
Corazón...
I'm scared. too.
But we're gonna
figure this out together.
Yeah?
Yeah.
This is cute.
You're cute.
I was getting used to you
in cowboy boots. honey.
Well. I won't be
out of them for long.
Hey. Breakfast's ready.
Here you go.
Looks good. Thanks.
I'll. uh.
I'll be home late tonight.
Me. too.
Yeah?
You seeing Oreana?
Uh. she wants to go fishing.
and then maybe
grab dinner after school.
Nice.
You know how to fish?
I'm sure it won't be
that hard to learn.
Yup.
Well. just. uh.
don't be too late.
Yup.
I know. um.
there's been a lot of change
around here lately.
But we're gonna
get through it together.
Like a family.
Carter. is there. uh.
is there something
you want to talk about?
I got to get to class.
I got a math quiz.
Love you.
Fuck.
We were fucking impossible
at 19. weren't we?
Honey. you're still impossible.
You're welcome.
There's some good ol' boys
in that bunkhouse.
And some sons of bitches.
-I've seen plenty of both.
-My old man
is rolling in his grave.
Partner. you got
a kid on the way.
Hey. The 10-Petal's
got a new herd of Angus
that needs branding.
So let's start
loading up these horses.
We spending the night. viejo?
You ain't.
Zachariah. go get your shit.
You're gonna be
my eyes and ears.
I'll meet you all over there.
Yes. sir.
Good morning.
Hi.
Last night was fun.
Yes. it was.
You got my hat off my head.
So. I'm gonna
see you later tonight?
Uh. I think I better
sleep in my own bed tonight.
Oh. well. then I'll just. uh...
I'll leave
the light on. just in case.
There you go.
So. you got a busy day ahead?
Yeah. due at
the clinic now. directly.
Aha.
-There you go.
-Oh. wow. Thank you.
Well. truth be told.
I'd rather spend the day
with you than your friend.
Oh. hell. Beulah.
you and Beth may have
more in common than you think.
Hmm.
I got your invite.
It sounds like
another big to-do.
Oh. it's bigger.
Ranch only turns
190 years old once.
Change is on the horizon.
Mm. That a good thing?
Well. I...
I want you to be my date.
Do you?
Well. I would be honored.
Well. all right. then.
Here we go.
Azul. you see any
that need doctoring.
-I want you to pull 'em. yeah?
-Yes. sir.
Git!
Ramos.
finally left the nest.
Nico. didn't you
fail ninth grade?
I was busy cowboying
while you were busy
-playing grab-ass.
-It's called football.
¿Grado nueve?
N'ombre. está bien
burro este güey.
What the fuck did he say?
Something about
cow shit. I think.
Got a runny nose. viejo.
Pull 57 now.
I'm lengthening
the leash with Oreana today.
She and the Dutton boy
are headed to the lake.
Yes. ma'am.
Thank you. Miguel.
Have a safe flight. ma'am.
Thank you.
You're every bit as advertised.
Well. you get what you pay for.
I suppose that's up
for Zane Nash to decide.
Businessmen like Zane.
they make deals on the details.
We win him.
the rest will follow.
so preparation is everything.
I've also found that it helps
to bend with the wind.
He was born and raised
on the South Side of Chicago.
Started busing tables at 15.
Built his empire by 30.
without inheriting a penny.
without going to college.
Zane sees
what most people don't.
So this...
this helps me bend to that.
Hmm. Bend away. Beth.
When are you gonna
talk to your ma?
When the time's right.
When's that?
You got to relax. man.
Have another beer.
I gave my goddamn blood
and sweat to this family.
Upheld my end of the deal.
kept my mouth shut about
everything y'all done.
and still y'all throw me out
-on my ass?
-Well. you only
get tossed out on your ass
if you let 'em push you.
Hell. you did no better.
Chet...
...a weak man
goes through life without ever
standing up for himself
'cause he starts
counting the cost of fighting.
That's a coward's heart.
Now. I don't want to believe
that's what's inside of you.
Motherfucker. you know it ain't.
Don't you dare
fucking doubt
what's inside of me.
Hey. watch out. Métete. métete.
Ey. con cuidado.
Eh. está cerrado. ¡Eh!
Entrale.
Yah! Hey!
That baling wire on that buckle?
Yeah.
You got that
rough-stock look about you.
What's that? Handsome?
Used up.
You're plenty handsome.
mi compa. Don't listen to him.
Plenty used up. too.
You get that
cowboy hat at the gas station?
I did. you know.
Your dad showed me where to go.
You aren't nervous. are you?
We'll close him in 20 minutes.
I want to be back on my porch
with a drink in my hand
by sundown.
Hi. we're here to see Zane Nash.
I bet Dwight liked to fish.
The drinking part for sure.
Doesn't feel real.
Does it?
I don't know what to feel.
My mother died when I was 11.
My father OD'd when I was 14.
I never had much of anyone
or anything till Beth found me.
I suppose I should be grateful
for all they've done. but...
...somehow I...
...just don't
feel like I have a choice
in who I am. what I do. or--
hell-- even what I like.
It's hard
to be thankful for that.
Dwight might've been a bad man.
but he was good to me.
He talked an awful lot...
...but somehow he listened.
And he liked you.
Beth and Rip do. too.
It's just...
just different.
That's because you're theirs.
I don't want
to be anyone's anymore.
Then don't.
Not even mine.
Oreana?
Yeah?
I think I love you.
I don't think either of us
really know what love is.
Um...
You don't think this is it?
We got somewhere to be.
Come on.
Hold on.
Good afternoon.
I would like to see a Republic.
And a Republic
would like to see you.
Most folks
let the hat wear them.
I'm not most folks.
Well. let's get it fitted.
Send 'em.
Last one. boys.
Don't hurt that other arm.
You might lose that buckle.
Shit. Ramos. I can rope
better than you with no hands.
It's "R-R-Ramos." partner.
Ramos!
Is that a challenge?
That's just a fact.
Oh. it's a fact.
You talk a big game.
Little pretty boy talking big.
-Pretty boy? You like that?
-Yeah.
Your sister
said that last night.
- Oh.
- Hundred bucks.
10-Petal versus Dutton.
I don't want your money. I want
-that pretty little buckle.
-Uh. you want that buckle
- 'cause you can't win one?
- All right. all right.
all right. Let's settle it
the old-fashioned way.
He wants this buckle. 500 a man.
one-handed match roping.
10-Petal versus Dutton.
Let's go now.
- All right.
- Come on. boys.
- Mm.
- Easy work.
- Boy.
Let an old man teach you. boy.
Well. sourcing your kitchens
from all over the West
is bad business.
It's a constant back-and-forth.
Ranchers. feedlots. packers.
It's a lot of middlemen. and
I know 'cause I'm one of 'em.
If you have
a license with 10-Petal Steaks.
you get to cut
all that bullshit out.
And the margins are so volatile.
it's like bleeding cash.
And I don't know
about you. Zane.
but I fucking hate overpaying.
We have the highest-quality
Angus.
bred. fed and finished in-house.
We're one of the few operations
that has its own
USDA-approved slaughterhouse.
It is a resource so coveted.
even I couldn't
get on the schedule.
Well. you've assumed
what I need.
but why do I need it from you?
The people
who dine in your restaurants.
they don't pay top dollar
just for a steak. right?
You know. they want a story.
They want an experience.
We can give them that. a story.
an authentic cowboy story.
At 10-Petal.
it is unlike any other.
and we're here
to offer you first look.
Well. that's... generous.
You know. I walked this deal
into your office
for a reason. Zane.
Deals like this walk into
my office all the time.
but money talks
and bullshit walks.
Well. we're still sat.
-aren't we?
-True.
and I've never had a Dutton
-sitting across my desk.
-Or a Jackson.
Your father was a legend. Beth.
McChesney spurs.
They're beautiful.
Worn. but not for a long time.
They were worn
by the Duke himself
in The Searchers.
My parents worked
nights and weekends.
Double features at The Music Box
became my babysitter.
The screen.
my escape from the city
and John Wayne. my guide.
I loved cowboys. And outlaws.
Clearly. you still do.
Tell me about the Yellowstone.
The Yellowstone
will be written about
in the history books.
But the 10-Petal
and the Jacksons.
they're still at it.
190 years.
they have been ranching.
You know. they arrived here
as the Sullivans. right?
Escaping famine in Ireland.
With dreams
of full bellies and warm sun.
Instead. we got thrown smack dab
in the middle
of the Texas Revolution.
My great-granddaddy's
great-granddaddy. Liam Sullivan.
was dodging bullets
and herding cattle
for the O'Connors in Refugio.
He knew that if
the cholera didn't kill him.
the Comanches or the war would.
So. in the dead of night.
battle raging on the horizon.
he rustled
a mess of his boss's longhorns
and drove them
to the Winter Garden.
An outlaw.
he took the name Jackson
from the whore he fled with.
and never looked back.
Hell. John Ford
couldn't have dreamed that up.
John Ford visited our ranch
when I was just a little girl.
Really?
Yeah.
You know. the Jacksons.
they. uh. they understood
that knowing when
to walk away is just as valuable
as knowing when to fight.
We'll gladly walk away
if you can't see
this opportunity.
It's an opportunity to work with
two of the greatest
ranching families
in this country's history.
Oh. what we got here. Oz?
Is that a Mossberg?
What is that?
I like that.
Everything's as clean
as a nun's backside.
Shit.
Hunter or hunted. Chet.
Hero or coward.
You know. life always comes
down to two choices.
Always the hunter.
How's that one feel?
Like trouble.
How's it feel to you?
What the fuck. man?
Rob-Will.
We'll take 'em all.
Smoke?
Hell yeah.
Git.
Let's go.
Yes. sir.
There it is.
He was late. but he made it up.
Let's go.
- Get it. boys.
- Six-two.
- See that?
- Oh. yeah.
That's how us vaqueros do it.
- Hey. you see this?
- A ver.
- See that. boys?
- Mommy buy that
for you at the flea market.
or what?
Let's go.
Oh!
Goddamn it. Frank.
Fucker's fast.
No. you're just fucking slow.
Snap on that head loop
hurt your ears down here?
Shit. I was listening for
the stretch on that heel rope.
I didn't hear nothing. Maybe
I'm getting hard of hearing.
Let us real men
show you how it's done.
I'd be surprised
if that washed-up bronc rider
even knows how to swing a rope.
Shit. I know
how to do lots of things.
Ask your sister. pretty boy.
I'm head and you're heel.
All right. Let's do it.
No pressure.
Golly.
Ooh. five-five.
Hey. you assholes got lucky!
So did your sister.
- Whoo. boys!
- Damn. that was fast.
- Pretty damn good run.
- Bullshit right there.
Some certified
bullshit is what that is.
You come to do some roping?
No. just wanted to check
if the Angus got unloaded okay.
They did.
Mm.
Can I get you
up to the house for a drink?
Yeah. Give me an hour.
When you washed up here.
you were...
you were a feral thing.
Running around in circles.
nowhere to go.
You've become a man since.
-This ranch has been good to me.
-Mm.
You've been good to it.
I knew you had fight.
Knew you'd always have my back.
Always.
I know we ain't blood. but...
I'd like to think
we're brothers.
You're the one I should've had.
That means the world to me.
It means nobody understands
what we done
to protect this ranch.
No one will.
And no one knows what we'd do
to hold on to it.
Anything.
Everything.
This is your home.
Your family.
It's the only one I got.
We ain't gonna let nobody take
what's rightfully ours.
Hey. motherfucker!
Yeah.
I got your attention now. huh?
Don't do anything
you might regret.
No matter how dirty. how shitty.
I did everything
you and Ms. Beulah asked.
I risked my goddamn life.
I thought of y'all as family.
We are.
We're-we're family. Chet.
Choice. coming from the bastard.
Put the gun down.
We-we can figure this out.
All right? Let's talk.
All you do is talk. Joaquin.
Talk in fucking circles.
and backstab
and cheat and fucking steal.
You said there are only
two ways to leave this ranch.
Two choices.
Oh. fuck me!
You shot me. You son of a bitch.
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
wait. wait. wait. wait!
You two-faced piece of shit.
Fuck.
Gracias. Miguel.
Más problemas. jefe.
Whoa. whoa.
Chet.
He didn't take
his firing so well.
You want to get that hand fixed?
I can't go to a hospital.
I ain't taking you
to the hospital.
Go on and get in.
Watching you in that meeting.
it was like looking
in the mirror 20 years ago.
You are a warrior
and a wildflower. Beth.
You are the one
who charmed him. Beulah.
Getting older.
it just makes you
ache for parts of yourself
that you didn't realize
you were losing.
Crave what used to be.
I held on too tight
for too long.
Don't worry. The 10-Petal
is not going anywhere.
I promise.
My daddy died
to save that ranch.
He asked me to do the same.
A tale as old as time. isn't it?
It's hard to watch
a man love dirt more than blood.
I am gonna go to the ladies'.
Another round. please.
I want to know who put the body
on my property.
My brother is a fool.
Joaquin. I know a lot of fools.
and they ain't killers.
You know a lot of killers?
Enough.
Wes Ayers was one of our hands.
He was also Rob-Will
and Chet's dealer.
-Mm-hmm.
-I don't know how long ago
it started.
but it spun out of control.
Wes paid the ultimate price.
Chet. too. I guess.
I don't know why
Rob-Will chose your land.
If you ask him.
he probably wouldn't either.
He's always
seen himself like a prince
who never became king.
so the kingdom be damned.
I want to know exactly
where your brother is.
Sacred Mesa.
rehab facility in Sedona.
After that.
I've lined up a job in Botswana.
He'll take
disgruntled princes like himself
to slaughter elephants
so they can pretend
to be heroic knights.
He's never coming back. Rip.
And if he does.
I'll fucking kill him.
You gonna tell me what happened?
Shit. you got to ask him.
A disgruntled cowboy.
He'll be all right. Everett?
Yeah. I got him.
He's not the first man
I've stitched up.
Let's go.
Come on. get inside here.
Let's take a look at that.
Yeah. take it easy.
I'll set the bones.
but you're gonna
need a surgeon
to make it look pretty.
I don't want the whole county
asking questions.
That means you don't
want me asking questions?
It's complicated. Everett.
Yeah. always is
with your family.
This'll sting.
You're good at this.
Yeah. well. animals are easier.
Take it easy now. There you go.
Okay.
I see why she likes you.
Your mother likes everyone.
as long as
they don't get in her way.
Yeah.
She's happiest
when you're around.
I might have been wrong
about Oreana and Carter.
- Thank you.
- Of course.
She certainly has
taken a liking to him.
I told her.
that kid. he has a...
he has a really pure heart.
Mm.
Well. it must've been
an easy pregnancy. then.
He wasn't a pregnancy.
Mm-hmm.
I have a theory.
The harder the pregnancy.
the harder the heart.
I struggled to carry Rob-Will.
Then I labored for 48 hours
before he came out
kicking and screaming.
I was young.
I wasn't ready. I felt so alone.
His daddy died in an awful flood
before he was born.
Then. little baby Joaquin
was dropped in my lap.
Yeah. by a ranch hand who. uh...
he got on the wrong side
of the law.
I was scared
till that survival instinct
kicked in.
After that. I had no problem
putting a bullet in the skull
of anything
that threatened my boys.
I understand that.
Well. problem is.
you can't shoot addiction.
You just pray the experts know
what the hell they're doing.
Well. that must be hard.
Eh. it's a storm I'll weather.
But that's another
similarity in our families.
What's that?
Taking in wayward sons.
Joaquin.
Carter.
Montana's former
Attorney General. Jamie.
Yeah. I don't think
about him anymore.
Yeah. well. I don't blame you.
I mean. but one has to wonder
what really happened.
Him gone missing
after what happened
to your father?
I don't think
about that. either.
Hmm.